This video contains the exercise associated with the previous video.
So the goal of this exercise is essentially to produce this graph.
This will allow you to explore the central limit theorem and a little bit more detail.
So for the central limit theorem to be valid for the central limit theorem to hold you need to have
a sufficient number of sampling from the different distributions that you are combining together.
And so what you want to do in this exercise is essentially repeat the code that we went through in the
previous video where we created a sine wave and uniform noise and added them together.
And what you are manipulating here is the number of data points that you use to create the sine wave
and the uniform distribution of noise ranging from 50 to ten.
And that is going to go on the y axis here.
So you can see this starts off at well close to zero.
So this is 50 and ten thousand data points here.
And then what you're looking at in this color plot is actually the distribution for each of these samples.
So the distribution is going to look something like this.
It's gonna be this kind of like normal ish looking distribution and that you saw in the previous video
but now each of those distributions for each n here each number in here goes into a matrix and then
you make an image of that matrix of the distribution matrix so each row in this matrix corresponds to
a distribution and the height of that distribution corresponds to the color here.
So good luck working through this project.
And now I'm gonna switch to Python and show you how I solved this exercise.
So let's see.
I'm going to start by creating a variable an s.
This is for ends.
It's going to be numbers ranging from 50 to ten thousand and in steps of one hundred.
So let's already look at what this and this variable is.
So you can see it starts at 50 it actually doesn't make it all the way up to 10000.
And that's because I'm skipping in increments of one hundred.
So okay maybe you want to argue that I'm already violating the instructions but that's okay.
It actually doesn't really make much of a difference.
All right.
And then I'm going to specify a variable for the number of bins because once I finish all the code I
want to explore what is the effect of the number of bins on the shape of the distribution which means
on that figure.
Okay.
And so the way that I'm going to do this is by creating a matrix I'll call it all hist for all of the
histogram.
And that's going to be zero.
So initialize it as zeros.
And what is going to be the size of this matrix.
Well coming down on the y axis it's going to be the length of N S so the number of ends and then going
across on the x axis is going to be the number of beans.
So that's going to be n beans.
And now what I'm going to do is loop through all of the ends and then what I want to do in here is create
the two signals I'm actually going to scroll up and copy and paste here.
So we copy and paste down here.
So here's where I create the two signals and now the main thing I have to change is this variable n
this parameter ends.
This is no longer n.
Instead it is the N S I see the ice index into N S and this is pretty tricky because you have to be
careful that you don't just want the variable ie.
This is actually going from zero to ninety nine.
So we want to use the variable I as the indexing into this other vector here n s OK and obviously that
has to change here as well so that s n s of index I okay.
And now in the previous video we were actually just directly creating the plots of the histogram using
the P L T dot hist function but here what we actually want to do is extract the information not draw
the plot directly so therefore we want to use num pi dot histogram and the thing that we want to get
the histogram of is the combination of the two signals so I'm going to write directly in the input here
Sig 1 plus Sig 2 and we have n beans.
So now you might remember that the histogram function gives two outputs.
It gives the heights of all the histogram.
And also the bean edges.
So that's generally of the form y comma X but now instead of just putting this into a vector Y this
is actually going to go into the matrix all hist and it's going to be the I S throw and all of the columns
in this matrix all hist so let's already run this code and see if that runs okay.
So that runs we don't get any python coding errors so that's a pretty good sign.
Now it turns out we're not quite done with this.
There's a few more things we need to do.
But first of all I want to try to plot this.
I'm going to use the function P color.
That's basically a way to make the image look full and readily visible.
So we want on the x axis is going to be the variable x here except it's not all of x you remember from
a couple of videos ago.
We want to use just the first N minus one points in X and the y axis is going to correspond to the ends
or variable n s and then the matrix that we want to plot is called All hist like this.
And then I will type P L T that X label and the X label is going to be the data value the Y label will
be the number of points in the sample and let's also plot a color bar.
Okay.
And then finally peel to that show.
Let's see how this thing looks.
OK.
So this is looking pretty interesting.
It seems like the distribution is approaching a normal distribution only for really large values of
n and not for small values of n.
But you know this doesn't really look exactly like the plot that I showed in the slides in the beginning
of this video.
And part of the problem.
Well part of the difference is the color.
And I'm going to get back to that in a moment.
But part of the problem here which is really a limitation is that the output of the histogram function
is actually in counts but the counts is going to differ the raw counts per Bin will differ for every
row in this matrix because the ends are different.
So that's really not very good.
That means we can't actually directly compare this line with this line because just the sheer number
of points in the signal is much smaller.
So we need to do is convert this into a probability function.
Now the way that I showed how to do that in a couple of videos ago was by getting this output separate
and then dividing it by the sum and so on what I'm going to do now is show you an alternative method
which is to right density equals true.
So that means it's going to output a probability density.
Now running this code again we see that the plot actually looks quite a bit different.
And it seems like it's Gaussian or sort of you know normal looking all the way down almost exactly to
the bottom it gets kind of weird and choppy down here.
Now I am not very happy with the range of color values that Python picked automatically for this plot.
I would like this to be scaled down a little bit.
So I'm going to specify as an additional input into the pea color function that the V Max which is the
maximum color limit should be point six.
Oh right.
This is starting to look better.
Now your plot on your screen might look different than mine.
It might have a flipped axis you might have the larger numbers down here and the smaller numbers up
here and your color scale might be different.
So it turns out when you activate essence that set that's actually changing some of the graphics settings
for you know the rest of your python session.
And to illustrate that to you what I'm going to do is click on kernel restart and clear output.
So that clears everything from the from the kernel from the workspace I have to rerun these two lines
of this cell to reinforce num pie and map plot lib and then I'm not going to run this line I'm just
going to run this cell of code here and you can see that the data are basically the same the results
are the same but the color map is different.
So we can change the color map as we like here with an optional input of see map.
And then you can define which color map you want to use.
So this default in Python is called very dis.
So that's actually not going to change anything.
I'm going to just by way of illustration apply the purples color map which I happen to like very much
because all of the purples are great colors anyway what I would like to do now is just spend a moment
to interpret this plot.
So essentially what you are seeing is that the distribution approaches a normal distribution consistent
with the prediction from the central limit theorem.
In this case almost regardless of how many points are in the sample you can see that when the number
of points is very small the distribution kind of breaks down it doesn't really look so good.
And actually to show you that maybe I will start this down at let's say 20 and go up to about 1000 just
to focus a little bit more on the lower edge of things.
Now this is actually pretty extreme down here but you can see that these distributions each of these
rows looks a little bit less like a normal distribution.
They're still starting small and ending small and getting larger towards the middle.
But when we increase the n then you can see it's starting to look more and more like a normal or Gaussian
distribution I hope you enjoyed this and the previous videos you learned about the central limit theorem
which essentially says that combining distributions are randomly sampled numbers from various distributions
will have a distribution that approaches a gaussian.
You also learned a little bit more about graphics and plotting in python and a very very small introduction
to the seaborne module and you will learn a little bit more about seaborne in the next few videos.